---
title: "Anchore Engine Release Notes - Version 0.5.1"
linkTitle: "0.5.1"
weight: 96
---

## Anchore Engine 0.5.1

Anchore Engine 0.5.1 includes many new features, bug fixes and improvements.  The latest summary can always be found in the Anchore Engine [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/anchore/anchore-engine/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) on github.

### New Features

+ Array support for the id param in /query/vulnerabilities and a namespace parameter for same route. Fixes #278.
+ Support for images based on google distroless OS, including detection of base OS/version and installed OS dpkg packages.  Fixes #277.
+ Ability to import an image analysis archive where the resulting image is owned by the account used to initiate the import. Fixes #269.
+ New parameter to secret_search gate, which allows the user to specify whether to trigger if a match is found (default) or is not found (new behavior).  Fixes #264.
+ New trigger in the 'files' gate to allow for checks against various file attributes - checksum and mode.  Fixes #262. Fixes #204.

### Bug Fixes

+ Better parsing of www-authentiate response header when performing registry credential validation on registry add. Fixes #275.
+ Add fall-thru on fix_available check for os packages in vulnerbility gate, addressing duplicate trigger matches that are disregarded by policy. Fixes #273.
+ Addresses analysis failure in cases where image config document metadata does not contain a history element.  Fixes #260.
+ Addresses external_id reference before assignment error on ecr iam role usage. Fixes #259
+ Improvements and fixes within the version comparison implementation for dpkg and rpm. Fixes #274 and #265.

### Improvements

+ Enforce stricter api checks for "source" object in POST /images. Fixes #261
+ Many minor bug fixes and improvements, in API input validation, CPE-based CVE matching performance, and others

### Upgrading

* [Upgrading Anchore Engine]({{< ref "/docs/install/upgrade" >}})
