---
title: "Anchore Engine Release Notes - Version 0.9.1"
linkTitle: "0.9.1"
weight: 84
---

## Anchore Engine 0.9.1

Anchore Engine 0.9.1 bug fixes, and improvements.  The latest summary can always be found in the Anchore Engine [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/anchore/anchore-engine/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) on github.

## Changes of Note

### Added
+ Added - Ability to block image analysis operations if the image's compressed size is above a configured value. Fixes #786

### Improved
+ Improved - Updated output messages and description for vulnerability_data_unavailable trigger and stale_feeds_data trigger to clarify only OS packages impacted. Fixes #879
+ Improved - Do not allow selectors to be empty unless using max_images_per_account_rule. Fixes #863
+ Improved - Updates Syft to version 0.12.4 to fix several issues in image analysis including empty package names/versions in invalid package.json files and java jar parent references being Nil.
+ Improved - Require user to set explicit default admin password at bootstrap instead of defaulting to a value if none found. Fixes #810
+ Improved - Update PyYAML to 5.4.1
+ Improved - Update Passlib to 1.7.4
+ Improved - Update to use Python 3.8
+ Improved - Update base image to UBI 8.3. Fixes #888

### Fixed
+ Fixed - Failed analysis due to incorrect manifest mime types due to bug in buildah. Fixes #850
+ Fixed - External API service swagger spec for GetRegistry response is inconsistent with actual returned JSON. Fixes #846
+ Fixed - Fixed analysis archive rules that did not fire if delete transition rule present. Fixes #883
+ Fixed - Force re-analysis of tag and digest rejected if create_at_override timestamp not provided. Fixes #861
+ Additional minor fixes and improvements

### Upgrading

* [Upgrading Anchore Engine]({{< ref "/docs/install/upgrade" >}})
